README.md, before:

<img src="https://www.bertelsmann.com/media/startseite-buehne/bertelsmann-buehne-3200-800_stage_gt_1200_grid.jpg" width="100%">

# Customer Segmentation Project
In this repository contains the information presented to the project developed as a Capstone Project for Nanodegree Data Science of the Udacity platform.

There are the data provided by Udacity and Arvato. As a result of the analyzes to be made using these data, the following are targeted:
* Implementation of unsupervised models for Customer and general population segmentation
* mplementation of supervised models to predict future company campaigns and make them more efficient.

## Contents

1. [Installation](#1)
2. [Project Motivation](#2)
3. [Files](#3)
4. [Support files](#4)
5. [Instructions](#5)
6. [Analysis process inside the project](#6)
7. [Result](#7)
8. [Post of Medium](#8)
9. [Source, Licensing, Authors, and Acknowledgements](#9)
8. [Conclusion](#10)


<a name="1"></a>
# Installation
To run the Jupyter notebooks and python scripts, you will need a standard installation of Anaconda with Python 3.7.x and additional libraries needed on below:

* matplotlib
* seaborn
* H2o
* sklearn
* xgboost
* imblearn
* lightgbm
* xgboost
* catboost

**H2o.XGBootsClassifier** not supported by **Windows OS**. Because of you **must use different platform**. I used **Google-Colab**

<a name="2"></a>
# Project Motivation
In this project, the purpose was to characterize what types of individuals are more likely to be customers of a mail-order retailer and predict which customers would respond positively to marketing campaigns.


<a name="3"></a>
# Files
The information to be used in this project is provided by Udacity and Arvato for the project. There are 4 data files and 2 information of attributes files associated with this project:
* **`Udacity_AZDIAS_052018.csv`**: <br>Demographics data for the general population of Germany; 891 211 persons (rows) x 366 features (columns).
* **`Udacity_CUSTOMERS_052018.csv`**: <br>Demographics data for customers of a mail-order company; 191 652 persons (rows) x 369 features (columns).
* **`Udacity_MAILOUT_052018_TRAIN.csv`**: <br>Demographics data for individuals who were targets of a marketing campaign; 42 982 persons (rows) x 367 (columns).
* **`Udacity_MAILOUT_052018_TEST.csv`**:<br> Demographics data for individuals who were targets of a marketing campaign; 42 833 persons (rows) x 366 (columns).
* **`DIAS Attributes - Values.xls`**:<br> Gives the meaning of the column names.
* **`DIAS Information Levels - Attributes.xls`**: <br> Gives what the values in each column mean.

**Note**: The data used for this project not publicly available. It was given for a short time, only to the participants in the competition.

<a name="4"></a>
# Support files
In this project, some of the functions used are developed inside the file **utils.py**.

<a name="5"></a>
# Instructions
To make use of the project, you must access to the repository notebooks and execute the commands presented in it. This project uses 3 jupyter notebooks and a python file, which must be executed in the order indicated:
1. ../000_Preprocessing.ipynb         : Contain data preprocessing and feature engineering.
2. ../001_Unsupervised_Learning.ipynb : Contain Unsupervised learning techniques.
3. ../002_SupervisedLearning.ipynb    : Contain supervised learning models, metrics evaluation, and prediction for Kaggle submission.
4. ../myutils/utils.py                : Contain Supported file. For project, some of the functions used are developed inside this file.
5. ../Arvato-Report of CS.pdf         : Contain report of this project
<a name="6"></a>
# Analysis process inside the project
### Data cleaning and preprocessing
In this first section, an initial display of the relevant data and metrics were carried out, their cleaning as well as feature engineering for further steps.

### Population-Customer Segmentation with Unsupervised Learning
Using the Kmean model, creating high-potential customer classes with Unsupervised Learning method within the general population.

### Mailout campaigns forecasting with Supervised Learning
Implementation of supervised models such as LGBM, XGBoost, Catboost, Random Forest, Logistic Regression, and finally VotingClassifier for the forecasting of future company campaigns seeking to improve their performance.

<a name="7"></a>
# Results
* The detailed analysis of the results can be read in this **[Medium post](https://medium.com/@huseyinelci2000/finding-new-customers-using-machine-learning-f03857c7f965)** or in **Arvato-Report of Customer Segmentation.pdf**
* **Kaggle** Submissoin files -> '../Last/data/kaggle_submission_file.csv' [Click it](https://github.com/huseyinelci2000/CustomerSegmentation/blob/master/Last/data/kaggle_submission_file.csv)

<a name="8"></a>
# Post to Medium
**[Medium post](https://medium.com/@huseyinelci2000/finding-new-customers-using-machine-learning-f03857c7f965)**

<a name="9"></a>
## Source, Licensing, Authors, and Acknowledgements

#### Source and  Licensing
The **dataset** owner is [Bertelsmann-Arvato](https://www.bertelsmann.com/) The data used for this project not publicly available. It was given for a short time, only to the participants in the competition. You may use only software code pages.

#### Authors
Huseyin ELCI <br>
[Github](https://github.com/huseyinelci2000)  |  [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/huseyinelci)  |  [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/huseyinelci/)
#### Acknowledgements
Thanks to **[Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/)** for editing and setting the projects.
Thanks to **[Bertelsmann-Arvato](https://www.bertelsmann.com/)** for providing cool data with which we can create a cutting edge project.

---
<a name="10"></a>
## Conclusion
**It was instructive, it was worth it.** You may touch the code. Have a enjoy. **:)**

Commit message:

Kaggle
Added some information about the Kaggle Submission file and Competition knowledge.

README.md, after:

<img src="https://www.bertelsmann.com/media/startseite-buehne/bertelsmann-buehne-3200-800_stage_gt_1200_grid.jpg" width="100%">

# Customer Segmentation Project
In this repository contains the information presented to the project developed as a Capstone Project for Nanodegree Data Science of the Udacity platform.

There are the data provided by Udacity and Arvato. As a result of the analyzes to be made using these data, the following are targeted:
* Implementation of unsupervised models for Customer and general population segmentation
* mplementation of supervised models to predict future company campaigns and make them more efficient.

## Contents

1. [Installation](#1)
2. [Project Motivation](#2)
3. [Files](#3)
4. [Support files](#4)
5. [Instructions](#5)
6. [Analysis process inside the project](#6)
7. [Result](#7)
8. [Post of Medium](#8)
9. [Source, Licensing, Authors, and Acknowledgements](#9)
8. [Conclusion](#10)


<a name="1"></a>
# Installation
To run the Jupyter notebooks and python scripts, you will need a standard installation of Anaconda with Python 3.7.x and additional libraries needed on below:

* matplotlib
* seaborn
* H2o
* sklearn
* xgboost
* imblearn
* lightgbm
* xgboost
* catboost

**H2o.XGBootsClassifier** not supported by **Windows OS**. Because of you **must use different platform**. I used **Google-Colab**

<a name="2"></a>
# Project Motivation
In this project, the purpose was to characterize what types of individuals are more likely to be customers of a mail-order retailer and predict which customers would respond positively to marketing campaigns.


<a name="3"></a>
# Files
The information to be used in this project is provided by Udacity and Arvato for the project. There are 4 data files and 2 information of attributes files associated with this project:
* **`Udacity_AZDIAS_052018.csv`**: <br>Demographics data for the general population of Germany; 891 211 persons (rows) x 366 features (columns).
* **`Udacity_CUSTOMERS_052018.csv`**: <br>Demographics data for customers of a mail-order company; 191 652 persons (rows) x 369 features (columns).
* **`Udacity_MAILOUT_052018_TRAIN.csv`**: <br>Demographics data for individuals who were targets of a marketing campaign; 42 982 persons (rows) x 367 (columns).
* **`Udacity_MAILOUT_052018_TEST.csv`**:<br> Demographics data for individuals who were targets of a marketing campaign; 42 833 persons (rows) x 366 (columns).
* **`DIAS Attributes - Values.xls`**:<br> Gives the meaning of the column names.
* **`DIAS Information Levels - Attributes.xls`**: <br> Gives what the values in each column mean.

**Note**: The data used for this project not publicly available. It was given for a short time, only to the participants in the competition.

<a name="4"></a>
# Support files
In this project, some of the functions used are developed inside the file **utils.py**.

<a name="5"></a>
# Instructions
To make use of the project, you must access to the repository notebooks and execute the commands presented in it. This project uses 3 jupyter notebooks and a python file, which must be executed in the order indicated:
1. ../000_Preprocessing.ipynb             : Contain data preprocessing and feature engineering.
2. ../001_Unsupervised_Learning.ipynb     : Contain Unsupervised learning techniques.
3. ../002_SupervisedLearning.ipynb        : Contain supervised learning models, metrics evaluation, and prediction for Kaggle submission.
4. ../myutils/utils.py                    : Contain Supported file. For project, some of the functions used are developed inside this file.
5. ../Arvato-Report of CS.pdf             : Contain report of this project
6. ../Last/data/kaggle_submission_file.csv: Kaggle Submission file for compedition of predictions

<a name="6"></a>
# Analysis process inside the project
### Data cleaning and preprocessing
In this first section, an initial display of the relevant data and metrics were carried out, their cleaning as well as feature engineering for further steps.

### Population-Customer Segmentation with Unsupervised Learning
Using the Kmean model, creating high-potential customer classes with Unsupervised Learning method within the general population.

### Mailout campaigns forecasting with Supervised Learning
Implementation of supervised models such as LGBM, XGBoost, Catboost, Random Forest, Logistic Regression, and finally VotingClassifier for the forecasting of future company campaigns seeking to improve their performance.

### Kaggle Competition
This used the chosen model to make predictions on the campaign data as part of a **Kaggle Competition**.

<a name="7"></a>
# Results
* The detailed analysis of the results can be read in this **[Medium post](https://medium.com/@huseyinelci2000/finding-new-customers-using-machine-learning-f03857c7f965)** or in **Arvato-Report of Customer Segmentation.pdf**
* **Kaggle** Submissoin files -> '../Last/data/kaggle_submission_file.csv' [Click it](https://github.com/huseyinelci2000/CustomerSegmentation/blob/master/Last/data/kaggle_submission_file.csv)

<a name="8"></a>
# Post to Medium
**[Medium post](https://medium.com/@huseyinelci2000/finding-new-customers-using-machine-learning-f03857c7f965)**

<a name="9"></a>
## Source, Licensing, Authors, and Acknowledgements

#### Source and  Licensing
The **dataset** owner is [Bertelsmann-Arvato](https://www.bertelsmann.com/) The data used for this project not publicly available. It was given for a short time, only to the participants in the competition. You may use only software code pages.

#### Authors
Huseyin ELCI <br>
[Github](https://github.com/huseyinelci2000)  |  [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/huseyinelci)  |  [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/huseyinelci/)
#### Acknowledgements
Thanks to **[Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/)** for editing and setting the projects.
Thanks to **[Bertelsmann-Arvato](https://www.bertelsmann.com/)** for providing cool data with which we can create a cutting edge project.

---
<a name="10"></a>
## Conclusion
**It was instructive, it was worth it.** You may touch the code. Have a enjoy. **:)**
